Getting the Environment Ready

When you first open up the project, the very first thing you need to do is prepare your Python environment. Make sure you have Python 3.10 or newer installed. You will want to create a clean virtual environment, activate it, and install all the project dependencies so everything runs without interfering with your system packages.

Bash
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
# On Windows, activate with: venv\Scripts\activate

pip install -r requirements.txt
Testing the Physics and Environment

Before jumping straight into training the AI, it is best practice to make sure the core physics and environment functions are working properly. We run unit tests on our 4th Order Runge Kutta physics solver and the Gymnasium landing environment to confirm all torque calculations, observation bounds, and reward outputs are mathematically sound.

Bash
pytest physics/test_physics.py
pytest envs/test_env.py
Training the PPO Agent

Once the unit tests pass, you are ready to train the rocket to execute a powered landing using Proximal Policy Optimization. Running the training script initiates rollout collection, and setting an explicit seed ensures your run is reproducible. All model checkpoints and CSV logs will automatically save into the results directory as training progresses.

Bash
python train.py --iterations 200 --seed 42 --device auto
Evaluating Landing Performance

After training completes, you can evaluate how reliably your trained policy lands the rocket over a batch of test episodes. This step measures critical touchdown speed, horizontal drift error, and final tilt angles while generating trajectory plots in your results folder.

Bash
python evaluate.py --checkpoint results/checkpoints/ppo_final.pt --episodes 50
Launching Mission Control Dashboard

To watch your trained agent fly the rocket in real time, launch the interactive Pygame mission control interface. The UI displays live flight telemetry, gimbal angles, and trajectory maps. While the dashboard is active, press P to pause or resume, R to reset the episode, S to change simulation speed, or Q to quit.

Bash
python run_dashboard.py --checkpoint results/checkpoints/ppo_final.pt
Running the Web Interface and Exporting Models

If you prefer to inspect and run simulations inside a web browser, start up the web server and navigate to http://localhost:5000 on your desktop. Finally, if you ever want to deploy your trained landing policy into external software, web applications, or hardware microcontrollers, you can export the trained PyTorch actor network directly into ONNX format.

Bash
python web_server.py
Bash
python export_onnx.py --checkpoint results/checkpoints/ppo_final.pt --output results/ppo_actor.onnx
